Tutorial (#293)
cyclus/cyclus.github.com: source/user/tutorial/data_explorer.rst

An Introduction to Data Exploration
=====================================

The ``analysis`` package provides a way to fluidly explore the
data that arises from a |cyclus| simulation. A variety of metrics, plots, and information can be
manipulated and viewed in a straightforward and interactive way to develop a thorough
understanding of the features that matter the most.

Concept: Cyclus Output file
=========================================

> *CYCLUS* creates a .sqlite file as its output. SQLite is a database file

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*CYCLUS* creates an SQLite (``.sqlite``) database file as its output. SQLite is a database file
```

type that consists of a series of tables. A few functions have been
included in ``analysis.py``, a file in downloaded the github repository of this tutorial, to pull information from the sqlite
database and create figures.

> An sqlite database can be opened and its

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An sqlite database can be opened by viewers like ``sqlitebrowser`` or ``sqliteman``,
```

> contents viewed, but these database browsers often aren't helpful.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
but these database browsers aren't intended for powerful analysis.
```

> Importing the data into an external function and manipulating it would

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Importing the data into an external function and analyzing it
```

> provide more useful information. However, it can still be helpful to

Reviewer: ```suggestion
is a more powerful approach. However, it can still be helpful to
```

An Introduction to Data Exploration
=====================================

Cymetric provides a way to fluidly explore the

> data that arises from a |cyclus| simulation. A variety of metrics, plots, and information can be

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
data that arises from a |Cyclus| simulation. A variety of metrics, plots, and information can be
```

   <div class="alert alert-info">

**Interactive Input** Using the table below, create the following
variables. Include appropriate comments.

.. raw:: html

   </div>

+----------------+-----------------------------+----------------------------------+
| Variable       | Value                       | Purpose                          |
+================+=============================+==================================+
| ``cur``        | ``cur``                     | cursor to *CYCLUS* output file   |
+----------------+-----------------------------+----------------------------------+
| ``facility``   | ``'1178MWe BRAIDWOOD-1'``   | facility of interest             |
+----------------+-----------------------------+----------------------------------+
| ``flux``       | ``'out'``                   | isotope transaction direction    |
+----------------+-----------------------------+----------------------------------+
| ``nucid``      | ``922350000``               | nuclide id                       |
+----------------+-----------------------------+----------------------------------+

Using the table above, let's find out how much :math:`^{235}`\ U left the 1178MWe BRAIDWOOD-1?

> 1. In your IPython notebook create the variables:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. In your Jupyter notebook create the variables:
```

| ``title``      | ``'Cumulative Isotope Outflux of 1178MWe BRAIDWOOD-1'``   | title of plot                    |
+----------------+-----------------------------------------------------------+----------------------------------+

.. code:: ipython3

    plt.rcParams['figure.figsize'] = [10, 8]
    plt.rcParams['legend.fontsize'] = 12
    facility = '1178MWe BRAIDWOOD-1'
    title = 'Cumulative Isotope Outflux of 1178MWe BRAIDWOOD-1'
    analysis.plot_out_flux_cumulative(cur, facility, title)

Activity: Plot Fresh Fuel Mass
++++++++++++++++++++++++++++++
   Now let's plot the cumulative mass of the fresh nuclear fuel that is
   put into the 1178MWe BRAIDWOOD-1. Again, let's use
   ``analysis.plot_in_flux`` which takes the arguments:

   * cur
   * facility = ``'1178MWe BRAIDWOOD-1'``
   * title = ``'Cumulative Isotope Influx of 1178MWe BRAIDWOOD-1'``

.. code:: ipython3

       facility = '1178MWe BRAIDWOOD-1'
       title = 'Cumulative Isotope Influx of 1178MWe BRAIDWOOD-1'
       analysis.plot_in_flux(cur, facility, title)

.. parsed-literal::

    The agent_id for Reactor is:

.. parsed-literal::

    ['21']

> In cyclus, facilities are defined by their ``prototype_id``. For example

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In |Cyclus|, facilities are defined by their ``prototype_id``. For example
```
